Welcome, Ion. Are you from your native city of Ephesus?

And do the Epidaurians have contests of rhapsodes at the festival?

And were you one of the competitors--and did you succeed?

Well done; and I hope that you will do the same for us at the Panathenaea.

I often envy the profession of a rhapsode, Ion; for you have always to wear
fine clothes, and to look as beautiful as you can is a part of your art. Then,
again, you are obliged to be continually in the company of many good poets;
and especially of Homer, who is the best and most divine of them; and to
understand him, and not merely learn his words by rote, is a thing greatly to
be envied. And no man can be a rhapsode who does not understand the meaning of
the poet. For the rhapsode ought to interpret the mind of the poet to his
hearers, but how can he interpret him well unless he knows what he means? All
this is greatly to be envied.

I am glad to hear you say so, Ion; I see that you will not refuse to acquaint
me with them.

I shall take an opportunity of hearing your embellishments of him at some
other time. But just now I should like to ask you a question: Does your art
extend to Hesiod and Archilochus, or to Homer only?

Are there any things about which Homer and Hesiod agree?

And can you interpret better what Homer says, or what Hesiod says, about these
matters in which they agree?

But what about matters in which they do not agree?--for example, about
divination, of which both Homer and Hesiod have something to say,--

Would you or a good prophet be a better interpreter of what these two poets
say about divination, not only when they agree, but when they disagree?

And if you were a prophet, would you not be able to interpret them when they
disagree as well as when they agree?

But how did you come to have this skill about Homer only, and not about Hesiod
or the other poets? Does not Homer speak of the same themes which all other
poets handle? Is not war his great argument? and does he not speak of human
society and of intercourse of men, good and bad, skilled and unskilled, and of
the gods conversing with one another and with mankind, and about what happens
in heaven and in the world below, and the generations of gods and heroes? Are
not these the themes of which Homer sings?

And do not the other poets sing of the same?

What, in a worse way?

And Homer in a better way?

And yet surely, my dear friend Ion, in a discussion about arithmetic, where
many people are speaking, and one speaks better than the rest, there is
somebody who can judge which of them is the good speaker?

And he who judges of the good will be the same as he who judges of the bad
speakers?

And he will be the arithmetician?

Well, and in discussions about the wholesomeness of food, when many persons
are speaking, and one speaks better than the rest, will he who recognizes the
better speaker be a different person from him who recognizes the worse, or the
same?

And who is he, and what is his name?

And speaking generally, in all discussions in which the subject is the same
and many men are speaking, will not he who knows the good know the bad speaker
also? For if he does not know the bad, neither will he know the good when the
same topic is being discussed.

Is not the same person skilful in both?

And you say that Homer and the other poets, such as Hesiod and Archilochus,
speak of the same things, although not in the same way; but the one speaks
well and the other not so well?

And if you knew the good speaker, you would also know the inferior speakers to
be inferior?

Then, my dear friend, can I be mistaken in saying that Ion is equally skilled
in Homer and in other poets, since he himself acknowledges that the same
person will be a good judge of all those who speak of the same things; and
that almost all poets do speak of the same things?

The reason, my friend, is obvious. No one can fail to see that you speak of
Homer without any art or knowledge. If you were able to speak of him by rules
of art, you would have been able to speak of all other poets; for poetry is a
whole.

And when any one acquires any other art as a whole, the same may be said of
them. Would you like me to explain my meaning, Ion?

O that we were wise, Ion, and that you could truly call us so; but you
rhapsodes and actors, and the poets whose verses you sing, are wise; whereas I
am a common man, who only speak the truth. For consider what a very
commonplace and trivial thing is this which I have said--a thing which any man
might say: that when a man has acquired a knowledge of a whole art, the
enquiry into good and bad is one and the same. Let us consider this matter; is
not the art of painting a whole?

And there are and have been many painters good and bad?

And did you ever know any one who was skilful in pointing out the excellences
and defects of Polygnotus the son of Aglaophon, but incapable of criticizing
other painters; and when the work of any other painter was produced, went to
sleep and was at a loss, and had no ideas; but when he had to give his opinion
about Polygnotus, or whoever the painter might be, and about him only, woke up
and was attentive and had plenty to say?

Or did you ever know of any one in sculpture, who was skilful in expounding
the merits of Daedalus the son of Metion, or of Epeius the son of Panopeus, or
of Theodorus the Samian, or of any individual sculptor; but when the works of
sculptors in general were produced, was at a loss and went to sleep and had
nothing to say?

And if I am not mistaken, you never met with any one among flute-players or
harp-players or singers to the harp or rhapsodes who was able to discourse of
Olympus or Thamyras or Orpheus, or Phemius the rhapsode of Ithaca, but was at
a loss when he came to speak of Ion of Ephesus, and had no notion of his
merits or defects?

I perceive, Ion; and I will proceed to explain to you what I imagine to be the
reason of this. The gift which you possess of speaking excellently about Homer
is not an art, but, as I was just saying, an inspiration; there is a divinity
moving you, like that contained in the stone which Euripides calls a magnet,
but which is commonly known as the stone of Heraclea. This stone not only
attracts iron rings, but also imparts to them a similar power of attracting
other rings; and sometimes you may see a number of pieces of iron and rings
suspended from one another so as to form quite a long chain: and all of them
derive their power of suspension from the original stone. In like manner the
Muse first of all inspires men herself; and from these inspired persons a
chain of other persons is suspended, who take the inspiration. For all good
poets, epic as well as lyric, compose their beautiful poems not by art, but
because they are inspired and possessed. And as the Corybantian revellers when
they dance are not in their right mind, so the lyric poets are not in their
right mind when they are composing their beautiful strains: but when falling
under the power of music and metre they are inspired and possessed; like
Bacchic maidens who draw milk and honey from the rivers when they are under
the influence of Dionysus but not when they are in their right mind. And the
soul of the lyric poet does the same, as they themselves say; for they tell us
that they bring songs from honeyed fountains, culling them out of the gardens
and dells of the Muses; they, like the bees, winging their way from flower to
flower. And this is true. For the poet is a light and winged and holy thing,
and there is no invention in him until he has been inspired and is out of his
senses, and the mind is no longer in him: when he has not attained to this
state, he is powerless and is unable to utter his oracles. Many are the noble
words in which poets speak concerning the actions of men; but like yourself
when speaking about Homer, they do not speak of them by any rules of art: they
are simply inspired to utter that to which the Muse impels them, and that
only; and when inspired, one of them will make dithyrambs, another hymns of
praise, another choral strains, another epic or iambic verses--and he who is
good at one is not good at any other kind of verse: for not by art does the
poet sing, but by power divine. Had he learned by rules of art, he would have
known how to speak not of one theme only, but of all; and therefore God takes
away the minds of poets, and uses them as his ministers, as he also uses
diviners and holy prophets, in order that we who hear them may know them to be
speaking not of themselves who utter these priceless words in a state of
unconsciousness, but that God himself is the speaker, and that through them he
is conversing with us. And Tynnichus the Chalcidian affords a striking
instance of what I am saying: he wrote nothing that any one would care to
remember but the famous paean which is in every one's mouth, one of the finest
poems ever written, simply an invention of the Muses, as he himself says. For
in this way the God would seem to indicate to us and not allow us to doubt
that these beautiful poems are not human, or the work of man, but divine and
the work of God; and that the poets are only the interpreters of the Gods by
whom they are severally possessed. Was not this the lesson which the God
intended to teach when by the mouth of the worst of poets he sang the best of
songs? Am I not right, Ion?

And you rhapsodists are the interpreters of the poets?

Then you are the interpreters of interpreters?

I wish you would frankly tell me, Ion, what I am going to ask of you: When you
produce the greatest effect upon the audience in the recitation of some
striking passage, such as the apparition of Odysseus leaping forth on the
floor, recognized by the suitors and casting his arrows at his feet, or the
description of Achilles rushing at Hector, or the sorrows of Andromache,
Hecuba, or Priam,--are you in your right mind? Are you not carried out of
yourself, and does not your soul in an ecstasy seem to be among the persons or
places of which you are speaking, whether they are in Ithaca or in Troy or
whatever may be the scene of the poem?

Well, Ion, and what are we to say of a man who at a sacrifice or festival,
when he is dressed in holiday attire, and has golden crowns upon his head, of
which nobody has robbed him, appears weeping or panic-stricken in the presence
of more than twenty thousand friendly faces, when there is no one despoiling
or wronging him;--is he in his right mind or is he not?

And are you aware that you produce similar effects on most of the spectators?

Do you know that the spectator is the last of the rings which, as I am saying,
receive the power of the original magnet from one another? The rhapsode like
yourself and the actor are intermediate links, and the poet himself is the
first of them. Through all these the God sways the souls of men in any
direction which he pleases, and makes one man hang down from another. Thus
there is a vast chain of dancers and masters and under-masters of choruses,
who are suspended, as if from the stone, at the side of the rings which hang
down from the Muse. And every poet has some Muse from whom he is suspended,
and by whom he is said to be possessed, which is nearly the same thing; for he
is taken hold of. And from these first rings, which are the poets, depend
others, some deriving their inspiration from Orpheus, others from Musaeus; but
the greater number are possessed and held by Homer. Of whom, Ion, you are one,
and are possessed by Homer; and when any one repeats the words of another poet
you go to sleep, and know not what to say; but when any one recites a strain
of Homer you wake up in a moment, and your soul leaps within you, and you have
plenty to say; for not by art or knowledge about Homer do you say what you
say, but by divine inspiration and by possession; just as the Corybantian
revellers too have a quick perception of that strain only which is
appropriated to the God by whom they are possessed, and have plenty of dances
and words for that, but take no heed of any other. And you, Ion, when the name
of Homer is mentioned have plenty to say, and have nothing to say of others.
You ask, 'Why is this?' The answer is that you praise Homer not by art but by
divine inspiration.

I should like very much to hear you, but not until you have answered a
question which I have to ask. On what part of Homer do you speak well?--not
surely about every part.

Surely not about things in Homer of which you have no knowledge?

Why, does not Homer speak in many passages about arts? For example, about
driving; if I can only remember the lines I will repeat them.

Tell me then, what Nestor says to Antilochus, his son, where he bids him be
careful of the turn at the horserace in honour of Patroclus.

Enough. Now, Ion, will the charioteer or the physician be the better judge of
the propriety of these lines?

And will the reason be that this is his art, or will there be any other
reason?

And every art is appointed by God to have knowledge of a certain work; for
that which we know by the art of the pilot we do not know by the art of
medicine?

Nor do we know by the art of the carpenter that which we know by the art of
medicine?

And this is true of all the arts;--that which we know with one art we do not
know with the other? But let me ask a prior question: You admit that there are
differences of arts?

You would argue, as I should, that when one art is of one kind of knowledge
and another of another, they are different?

Yes, surely; for if the subject of knowledge were the same, there would be no
meaning in saying that the arts were different,--if they both gave the same
knowledge. For example, I know that here are five fingers, and you know the
same. And if I were to ask whether I and you became acquainted with this fact
by the help of the same art of arithmetic, you would acknowledge that we did?

Tell me, then, what I was intending to ask you,--whether this holds
universally? Must the same art have the same subject of knowledge, and
different arts other subjects of knowledge?

Then he who has no knowledge of a particular art will have no right judgment
of the sayings and doings of that art?

Then which will be a better judge of the lines which you were reciting from
Homer, you or the charioteer?

Why, yes, because you are a rhapsode and not a charioteer.

And the art of the rhapsode is different from that of the charioteer?

And if a different knowledge, then a knowledge of different matters?

You know the passage in which Hecamede, the concubine of Nestor, is described
as giving to the wounded Machaon a posset, as he says,

And when Homer says,

Come now, suppose that you were to say to me: 'Since you, Socrates, are able
to assign different passages in Homer to their corresponding arts, I wish that
you would tell me what are the passages of which the excellence ought to be
judged by the prophet and prophetic art'; and you will see how readily and
truly I shall answer you. For there are many such passages, particularly in
the Odyssee; as, for example, the passage in which Theoclymenus the prophet of
the house of Melampus says to the suitors:--

Yes, Ion, and you are right also. And as I have selected from the Iliad and
Odyssee for you passages which describe the office of the prophet and the
physician and the fisherman, do you, who know Homer so much better than I do,
Ion, select for me passages which relate to the rhapsode and the rhapsode's
art, and which the rhapsode ought to examine and judge of better than other
men.

Not all, Ion, surely. Have you already forgotten what you were saying? A
rhapsode ought to have a better memory.

Do you not remember that you declared the art of the rhapsode to be different
from the art of the charioteer?

And you admitted that being different they would have different subjects of
knowledge?

Then upon your own showing the rhapsode, and the art of the rhapsode, will not
know everything?

You mean to say that you would exclude pretty much the subjects of the other
arts. As he does not know all of them, which of them will he know?

Do you mean that a rhapsode will know better than the pilot what the ruler of
a sea-tossed vessel ought to say?

Or will the rhapsode know better than the physician what the ruler of a sick
man ought to say?

But he will know what a slave ought to say?

Suppose the slave to be a cowherd; the rhapsode will know better than the
cowherd what he ought to say in order to soothe the infuriated cows?

But he will know what a spinning-woman ought to say about the working of wool?

At any rate he will know what a general ought to say when exhorting his
soldiers?

Well, but is the art of the rhapsode the art of the general?

Why, yes, Ion, because you may possibly have a knowledge of the art of the
general as well as of the rhapsode; and you may also have a knowledge of
horsemanship as well as of the lyre: and then you would know when horses were
well or ill managed. But suppose I were to ask you: By the help of which art,
Ion, do you know whether horses are well managed, by your skill as a horseman
or as a performer on the lyre--what would you answer?

And if you judged of performers on the lyre, you would admit that you judged
of them as a performer on the lyre, and not as a horseman?

And in judging of the general's art, do you judge of it as a general or a
rhapsode?

What do you mean? Do you mean to say that the art of the rhapsode and of the
general is the same?

Then he who is a good rhapsode is also a good general?

And he who is a good general is also a good rhapsode?

But you do say that he who is a good rhapsode is also a good general.

And you are the best of Hellenic rhapsodes?

And are you the best general, Ion?

But then, Ion, what in the name of goodness can be the reason why you, who are
the best of generals as well as the best of rhapsodes in all Hellas, go about
as a rhapsode when you might be a general? Do you think that the Hellenes want
a rhapsode with his golden crown, and do not want a general?

My good Ion, did you never hear of Apollodorus of Cyzicus?

One who, though a foreigner, has often been chosen their general by the
Athenians: and there is Phanosthenes of Andros, and Heraclides of Clazomenae,
whom they have also appointed to the command of their armies and to other
offices, although aliens, after they had shown their merit. And will they not
choose Ion the Ephesian to be their general, and honour him, if he prove
himself worthy? Were not the Ephesians originally Athenians, and Ephesus is no
mean city? But, indeed, Ion, if you are correct in saying that by art and
knowledge you are able to praise Homer, you do not deal fairly with me, and
after all your professions of knowing many glorious things about Homer, and
promises that you would exhibit them, you are only a deceiver, and so far from
exhibiting the art of which you are a master, will not, even after my repeated
entreaties, explain to me the nature of it. You have literally as many forms
as Proteus; and now you go all manner of ways, twisting and turning, and, like
Proteus, become all manner of people at once, and at last slip away from me in
the disguise of a general, in order that you may escape exhibiting your
Homeric lore. And if you have art, then, as I was saying, in falsifying your
promise that you would exhibit Homer, you are not dealing fairly with me. But
if, as I believe, you have no art, but speak all these beautiful words about
Homer unconsciously under his inspiring influence, then I acquit you of
dishonesty, and shall only say that you are inspired. Which do you prefer
to be thought, dishonest or inspired?

Then, Ion, I shall assume the nobler alternative; and attribute to you in your
praises of Homer inspiration, and not art.
